## Executive Summary:
- Back in May 2025, Kettering Health faced a major ransomware attack that caused 14 hospitals and 120 outpatient centers, and IT systems to shut down. It also caused their call centers and portals to go offline while also causing all non-emergency procedures to be canceled. The attack compromised employee and patient data and exposed vulnerabilities in their systems. Employees and patient data, and the hospital's reputation were all affected by this ransomware attack from the Interlock Group. All services were recovered and back online by June 10th. The most important policy fix was least privilege access and frequent backups. That way, data can be recovered without paying a ransom. 
## Incident Report:
- Deontological ethics focuses on duty and rightness and wrongness of actions, whereas Feminist ethics focuses on truth, care, and relationships. The attack on Kettering Health disregarded both of these by causing Kettering to fail in their duty to protect their patients' data, which also caused it to harm their relationships with their patients and lose the trust patients had in their hospitals. From a legal standpoint, Kettering Health also violated HIPAA due to the attackers being able to gain access to 941GB worth of sensitive data. Another law that could have potentially been broken was the Federal Trade Commission Act because of its insufficient measures in its cybersecurity. 
- Authorization boundary: The incident response was approved by the CISO. The CISO allowed the system shutdown to help mitigate the incident. The Incident Response Team handled the remediation and investigation. The Legal team handled looking through any laws that might have been broken during the attack, for example, HIPAA. Finally, the IT security and operations teams helped repair the systems after the incident. 
- Failure Reconstruction & NIST: The attack ties into NIST lifestyle because the cybersecurity layout Kettering Health used prior was not prepared or sufficient to detect the attack. The threat actor was the Interlock Ransomware Group, and they were able to steal 941 GB of data, including financials, HR papers, and patient records. It is unconfirmed how they gained access, but it was likely through a phishing attack. The detection of the attack happened on May 20th. Eradication and recovery happened by June 2nd, the Electronic Health Records were restored, and by June 10th, operations were fully functional again. The recovery involved a forensic audit, notifying patients and staff, rebuilding systems, and restoring the Electronic Health Records. There is a forensic analysis still taking place after the attack and legal consultations. 
## Suggested new policy:
- ### AUP:
   Use of Kettering Health data and networks is limited to authorized users for administrative and clinical purposes within the assigned scope. Users must access only resources for which they have explicit permission and must not perform testing, scanning, or data collection beyond approved tasks. Personal data shall be minimized and handled responsibly. Suspected exposure or misuse must be reported immediately to the IT Security team or the privacy officer via email or phone. Violations may result in loss of access and disciplinary action.
- ### Monitoring & Retention Clause:
  The IT security team at Kettering Health monitors network systems and activity on company-issued devices to protect operations and comply with policy. Monitoring will be limited to authorized purposes and assigned scope. Types of data collected may include access, security, audit logs, and health records. Users receive notice at sign-in and through the AUP; personal communications are not reviewed except as required by law or incident response.
The IT security at Kettering Health collects the minimum data necessary, restricts access to trained staff, and retains monitoring data for 90 days, unless required longer for investigations or legal holds. Individuals may raise concerns or appeal via email or phone call to the Kettering Health Privacy Officer. Violations may result in loss of access and disciplinary action. The hospital policy follows HIPAA guidelines. 
- ### Disclosure Plan:
  First, they should have contacted the legal department and the state government to let them know of the attack as soon as the attack was confirmed. After that, affected individuals should receive a notice about the attack and be given updates as they try to mitigate the issue. Lastly, Kettering Health should disclose to the public about the ransomware attack, including their remediation efforts and recovery operations. These steps will ensure transparency and keep trust in the company as they work to mitigate the incident. 
- ### ROE: 
  -  Purpose: Assess Kettering Health website, mychart, and EPIC apps that were threatened during the ransomware attack to help decrease future risk without disrupting service. 
 -    Authorization: CISO authorizes testing by the incident response and IT security teams from May 18th until the end of May during operational hours for any servers and domains harmed in the incident. 
- In scope: Internal systems, phone lines, and the electronic health record system that were affected during the incident. Along with test accounts, read-only data (Financial data), and any Emails or URLs believed to be phishing that could have led to the initial entry point. 
-   Out of Scope: Accessing any staff or patient information that was not harmed in the incident. Another out of scope is any social engineering, like phishing. The last two out of scope include any physical access after hours and Prod data writes. 
  -  iming and Deconfliction: Testing window is during operation hours until the incident is resolved. The help desk routes to SECops to avoid any repeated information. 
  - Data Handling: Collect the minimum data necessary for assessment of risk, and any data captured should be encrypted. Data is retained for 90 days unless required to be held longer due to legal reasons. All PII is redacted, and hashes are logged to prove truthfulness. 
  - Communication & Escalation: Contact and escalate to the incident response manager and IT security lead via email or phone call. There is an hour notification window for severe findings. Stop-test trigger if patients, employees, or systems are accidentally affected. 
  - Reporting & Handling: Incident draft within 5 days of completion. There will be a retest in 10-15 days after remediation, and a fix plan meeting will be held to go over findings and create a fix plan. 
- ### AI Use in SecOps Clause:
  Kettering Health will provide transparency and follow accountability guidelines. Any AI used in the mitigation of the threat will have a human-in-the-loop step at any decision point or where it is necessary. All AI use will have audit trails as well. Appeals will be accepted for any AI actions that might have harmed the data or access. This will make sure that there is a human still overseeing the process so the AI stays ethical, without bias, and gives accurate data. 
- ## Controls and Trade Offs:
The policy clauses I made mitigate the root causes of the incident by enforcing transparency, increased monitoring, human-in-the-loop, data minimization, and better cybersecurity training. By strengthening these, there will still be trust in the company, data will be more secure, individuals will better understand how to handle phishing attacks, and there will be a human to help if any AI system makes a mistake. The changes will also help with stakeholder concerns and coincide with HIPAA and NIST. Even though the increased monitoring might cause people to be concerned, it is worth the trade-off to keep trust between everyone and also better protect the data. All the changes are proportional to the risk level; for example, more secure/riskier areas will have stricter monitoring and access control. To protect patient data, which will also help keep everything ethical, the low-risk areas are not the top priority, and high-risk areas are prioritized first. 
- ## Conclusion:
Changes to laws/processes that could help avoid the future situation could be enforcing stricter audit and cybersecurity standards. This could mean using multifactor authentication, frequent audits, and stricter least privilege and data minimization. Another thing to consider is more frequent penetration testing to ensure the security protocols are working and updated where needed. 
The company could have had more penetration tests, and on top of that, smaller tests could have been run more frequently to test everyone in their roles to ensure they knew what they were looking for. Training and tips on phishing, scams, and basic computer tips like changing your password and not using the same one for multiple accounts could have been sent to all employees in the company, so they would be knowledgeable and know what to do and not do to keep themselves and the company safe from threats. Stricter access controls could have been put into place, and audits could have happened more often as well.

