## Lab/Project Ethics Addendum (final).
- Protocol approval & roles: For a BCI study, the Dean and the board of education will have to review the proposal and approve the study before any work for the study takes place. The faculty sponsor will watch over the study to make sure the study stays within the school guidelines. There will be a medical consult on standby to evaluate any risks, decide if the study needs to be concluded, and, in case of an emergency. Any individuals who interact with the test subjects will have to read through the guidelines and sign a form to uphold ethics and follow the rules. Oversight by multiple individuals improves accountability and increases safety while also making sure the study stays ethical. 
- Informed consent: Every participant can withdraw from the study at any point. Before joining the study, all potential participants will have a plain-language notice to read through explaining the devices used, how long the study will take, and the tests that will happen. Along with this, the risks/benefits will be outlined with the inclusion of any privacy concerns. Participants can reach out with any concerns or questions.
- Scope & prohibitions: There can be no self-experimentation unless a proposal is submitted to the Faculty Sponsor and the research staff leading the study. The proposal will then need to be reviewed and approved. There will be no invasive procedures in this study. Only non-invasive BCIs can be used and must be preapproved. 
- Data handling: The study uses data minimization techniques, and only the data required to complete the study will be collected. Any PII will be redacted, and data will be deleted if anyone withdraws or the study is completed. Only approved personnel will be able to access the data. 
- Incident & withdrawal process: An incident log will be periodically updated and submitted with the final study documentation. Some stop-test conditions may include, but are not limited to, malfunctioning devices, participants experiencing discomfort, or showing signs of distress. Adverse event contacts need to be notified immediately. Contacts may include a safety/medical consult, the faculty sponsor, and the research staff.

## Equity & Access Analysis:
Those who benefit most from the wearable BCI would be the places that have more advanced technologies and wealthy people who can afford it. Those who would not benefit as much would be third-world countries, individuals with disabilities, and people of a lower income. This could be due to the cost, lack of education, or simply not having the tools or infrastructure to have them in certain locations. Mitigations to this would be making the cost more affordable, using public funding, and making the design more inclusive. This would ensure more individuals could benefit and not just a select few. 

## Justification:
The Ethics In Technology ebook by Ed Weber, discusses how new technology, for example, BCIs, need to follow principles like “autonomy”, “consent,” “justice”, and beneficence/non-maleficence. This makes it so individuals know the risks, benefits, and have control over their data. The same ebook by Ed Weber discussed societal impacts such as “adoption curve” and “conversion costs”. The cost of using new technology and learning the technology can be harder for groups that do not have the money or the tools needed to use/learn it in underprivileged places. Following the principles above and following good privacy protections, one can ensure that these advancements are helping individuals and trying to cease inequality. 
- Evidence Links: 
Weber, E. (2025). Ethics In Technology (1st ed.). St Charles Community College. https://hocking.blackboard.com/ultra/courses/_11760_1/outline/edit/document/_897522_1?courseId=_11760_1&view=content&state=view 

## Reflection:
A trade-off I’d like to revisit is risk thresholds. I’d like to dive deeper into how to know when societal benefit outweighs the risk. Technology is always improving or changing which means the risk is always changing whether that be increasing or decreasing and I’d like to look closer at what was once an acceptable amount of risk could become an unacceptable amount due to the ever changing technology and the ethicalness of said risk. 

## AI Use Note:
I used SAGE to make sure I hit all the points I needed to in order to complete the assignment. I also used SAGE to study the material. 
